now there you go can hear now yeah okay
okay okay I will go without my earphones
then hey how are you doing I'm doing all
right how are you doing so you got this
met interview coming up huh yeah yeah
I'm pretty good um I have this week um
next week are my final interviews they
are divided between next Monday and
Wednesday okay this week I took a week
off uh at work to you know have the
final weeks week of preps so you know
see how it goes I'm just trying to uh
with my Peak for early next week and um
you know we'll see is uh is product
architecture the one you're most nervous
about um I I actually don't know you
know I have this is the third time I'm
applying for a Staff Roll um but both
previous times were completely different
and I actually had been for three years
um okay yeah but when I quit I was and I
wasn't interviewing for a six so you
know I kind of like not I'm not sure
what to expect I'm pretty sure that uh
you know with the behavioral I should be
good um I've done this like several
several times but obviously I have never
interviewed for any six and this uh I
guess especially the architecture part
is kind of this like INF famously kind
of vague like it it's described by a lot
of people about as this like super
difficult thing like you need to uh show
who knows what you know to show to show
that you you're good enough
and you know I'm just you know I guess
it's the most vague one right so um yeah
you might say that probably I'm the most
nervous about this one yeah that makes
sense well what I gathered is that what
we'll pay the most attention to today is
that Delta between senior and staff and
see if I can have any tips for you on
making sure that you fall on the right
side of that spectrum is there anything
else that you want to make sure that we
pay attention to or that you want to get
out of this session so I can tailor it
accordingly uh well you know um just all
in all I'm curious like you know about
any feedback you might have have if that
was like a real interview so
communication obviously structure
um yeah um of course like one more thing
that I guess it's not super clear to me
is like the difference between between
product architecture design and the
system design as I'm sure you have heard
hundreds of times right so as far as I
I'm aware it's really kind of you know
another
kind of point of chance in a way it
really depends on the interviewer how
skilled they are how much experience
they have with the product uh interviews
if they have a bit less experience I've
heard that maybe they will fall back
more to just you know system design or
just like to what they know obviously
right so from that perspective I guess
um yeah it say a little bit tricky for
me because I have led obviously and I
used to be also a full stack engineer
right um I mean not right you don't know
that but I used to be a fullstack
engineer as well uh but uh I was never a
lead architect for like a system at
Facebook scale where I would be
responsible for you know choosing the
technology uh yeah designing the
architecture so you know I tried to
learn as much as I could but in these
areas probably I mean you can tell me
afterwards but I think that it may or
may not be clear that some of this
knowledge about particular systems is
more from you know Theory than practice
basically uh so you know we'll see for
what it's worth almost nobody has
experience architecting systems that
Facebook SC as you know from being on
the inside you work on a small little
portion of something so don't worry too
much about that what I will say just
really really quickly before we get
started and maybe we can tie in some
examples at the end after your session
but you're right the Delta is minor and
the majority of cases especially at the
staff level you're basically getting a
system design interview the only thing
that you can guarantee is that it's a
user facing appli
so there's no designer rate limit
there's no designer message CE there's
no top K there's none of that stuff it's
Uber Yelp YouTube Ticket Master all that
stuff um and then beyond that yeah
there's some opportunities for you to
show product thinking there's some
opportunities to maybe go a little bit
deeper on API but when I say a little
deeper I mean like 30 seconds a minute
more it's not the whole interview so
we'll uh we'll see how you do today and
we'll kind of we'll use that to anchor
anchor the feedback accordingly yeah
sounds great thank you cool let's do it
so I'm going to open up an integrated
excal draw whiteboard here of course
excal draw is what you'll use in the
meta interview um the question that I
have for you today is I want you to and
it's a question that's popular in the
meta product architecture interviews
right now that's to design a system like
Yelp before I tell you specifically what
I care about is Yelp a product that you
have used as a user well not for several
years to be honest uh since Apple bought
them I don't think I have used them once
I had a period the vast majority of my
career I spent as actually as an iOS
engineer uh so I had a period where you
know I was really curious in how they
operated they were like one of the cool
startups obviously they really had like
a very good mobile app yeah but it was
it must have been like five six seven
years ago the last time I I used them
more than like once a week well that's
more than good enough because of course
we'll be doing a simple version of Yo
and the Fe features that are core to
Yelp which are the features that I care
about here are the ability to find
businesses I'll let you define what it
means to find a business along with
criteria but you need to be able to find
a business of course and then second is
rate and review
businesses uh and so those are the core
functionalities of a system like y I'll
let you take it from there and I'm gonna
start our timer at the top right you'll
have 35 minutes 35 three five three five
yep and that's consistent that's
consistent with meta five on either side
for questions and uh pleasantries sounds
great thank you okay so um I'm going to
follow uh the structure of starting with
um functional requirements so we will
talk a little bit about you know how the
users are going to use the app or the
system uh we're going to talk a little
bit uh about non-functional requirements
as well uh to have some broader context
for you know the
um how we are going to evaluate the
architecture we're going to talk a
little bit about the data structures or
like the types of data we will work be
working on about the apis and then we're
going to move on to um the system design
um so uh starting with functional
requirements
uh you already mentioned uh something
but just to make sure I understand uh so
basically users will be able to find
businesses um I'm curious to learn um
what the search criteria are going to be
like what kind of ux are we aiming for
is there like some search box that I
start with and I enter some terms uh
that may include anything from names to
descriptions to locations and then I get
a list sorted by something or do I have
maybe some kind of filters that I apply
um do you have any um preferences from
that perspective yeah so in general
questions like that the product
questions I'll put it on on you you tell
me what you think is best and if I think
that it's unreasonable or unconstrained
then I'll come in and and make
adjustments Okay cool so I think uh
let's go with
uh uh with just search terms for now
maybe we will think about it a little
bit more later um search terms just
because it seems simpler for users to
just have a single box and enter what
they're looking for then you know going
for some more robust UI like on
amazon.com uh so that's the first one uh
the second one uh users uh will be
able to rate businesses as well that's
also something you mentioned so I
imagine something like one to five stars
rating uh is this more or less how it
works yeah so let's go a mandatory one
to five star rating and then an optional
text review optional text uh review um
okay um
do okay do we have do we have any other
requirements it sounds like those are
the two main things that you mentioned
even uh so those are the those are the
two main things I'll say as we picture
this kind of simplistic maybe Yelps
complete flow when you search for a
business you're going to get as you said
the list of businesses maybe sorted by
something and then you could probably
click on one of those if you click on
one of those you'll see the business
page and this will have the business
details as well as all the ratings and
reviews and all that
yeah um so users will be able to see
details Pages for chosen
businesses um okay thank you for that um
actually one more thing just quickly as
it pertains to search I agree with your
decision on a term there's one component
that's important that's missing here and
that's going to be some location so I
don't I don't care about pizzeria in New
York too much while I'm here in La so we
need account for that so I was kind of
assuming that uh term could also be um
like include the name of a location but
I assume that you're talking basically
about lat and long long latitude and
longitude like sometime somehow I they
can mention that it's like within five
kilometers from me or something like
that right yeah like the the typical use
flow of of the product that we'll be
designing in a yel will be something
like you know where's the closest
laundry mat to me or going to be in San
Francisco this weekend what are the good
Mexican restaurants right so in both
cases I'm bounded by some location right
sounds good okay cool um so uh we will
not be talking about signups logins
anything like that uh we are assuming
that there will be some sessions
basically um we don't have to worry
about it for now um so we can move on to
non-functional requirements uh then and
um okay so thinking about
um data
consistency um I would be guessing that
we will be choosing availability over
strong consistency so it's like you know
it's not super important that my review
appears for everybody uh just
instantly um so
uh uh
for ratings and reviews and and and
actually um businesses as well I assume
right so if somebody adds a business to
the system I also probably don't have to
see it
immediately um uh then like what scale
do you think we're talking about I
cannot remember but y i i remember like
probably like tens of millions at least
of monthly active users um so we go
we'll say 100 million monthly active and
then there's 10 million businesses in
the platform
uh so 10 million
businesses
um and um I assume also like not quite
sure yet if it's going to be super
relevant but this is going to be like
quite read heavy I imagine like uh most
people don't really review the stuff
that they see on such platforms they
basically search and then they check it
out right so um what would you say would
be the like uh rights to read ratio like
one to 100 one to a th000 yeah I think
your observation is correct and it's
probably on that one to 10,000 one to
1,000 range most people search and read
almost nobody writes reviews
right okay um so
um
yeah I'm thinking
uh okay and the search needs to be fast
I guess that's kind
of uh the main product requirement I
would expect for this
um uh okay um does this sound good as a
kind of starting list of non functional
requirements do you feel like thing like
is glaringly missing here yeah this is
great I'm going to add one more to you
if you don't mind yeah and that's that
in general with the user created content
particularly in the way reviews we'll
care somewhat about the Integrity of
those reviews there's a lot of things we
could consider spam all this I don't
care what I do care is just upholding
the constraint that any given user can
only review any given business once okay
so I can't go give my competitor a bunch
of zero Stars every
day
yeah um great that was kind of yeah I
thought that was kind of obvious but um
yeah that definitely should should have
pointed it out thank you so much um okay
so uh let's talk
about uh the
entities uh we're going to work with uh
so definitely there's going to be uh a
business
uh there's definitely going to be a
review uh or rather rating uh because
like um yeah I imagine that there will
be some score and an optional text field
probably in this writing model like you
mentioned there's going to be some
profile there's going to be a location
like you
mentioned uh and yeah I think that
sounds about reasonable um for now based
on the function requirements that we uh
have outlined um do you see something
missing
here
okay so let's talk about the apis okay
so users will be able to find a
businesses so yeah we're going to assume
it's going to be a rest API
um there's nothing here that makes me
think that it should be something else
uh so um let's say that for searching
businesses we're going to have a search
endpoint but preferably without the typo
that will uh accept our search term like
we mentioned um and let's say location
um uh as well this is going to be pretty
vague like you mentioned like maybe
location like yeah let's let's say for
now that these are coordinates or
longitude and latitude like maybe we
change it a bit later and then it's
going to uh retain return
uh uh an array of businesses um like
partial probably um like yeah like an
array of names basically like whatever
we want to display on the list um yeah
definitely should also support
pagination uh so um probably we're going
to have some optional cursor parameter
and maybe also a page size uh we can
talk about it a little bit later when we
design the system uh one more thing that
uh I should also mention uh is that um
we're going to handle authentication in
headers either via session ID or JWT
token depending on how you know the the
login system works uh for the product um
so I'm not going to be mentioning
authentication for each con consecutive
here so we have the sech end point uh
then uh we're going to have another
uh end point uh for rating
businesses uh I I think it should
probably just return a status not don't
see right now any need to return
anything more complex any more data and
in the body we will submit uh some
business ID we're going to uh submit a
rating uh and then optionally uh we're
going to submit the review uh text as
well
um and and uh also maybe above the
review we're going to have
uh an
endpoint that will basically F the
details like the the business details
endpoint um and that seems U like about
right uh for the functional requirements
uh so far again just to touch base with
you do you see like something missing
here or something not clear up to this
point letc to me okay sounds great so
let's go actually just a just a quick
question for you uh you mentioned
authentication great fine are all of
these endpoints going to require
authentication that's a great a question
I think um I'm not again I cannot
remember like how Yelp works exactly um
that's something I should have
definitely asked uh in the beginning uh
it's a product question like do we want
to allow people who are not
authenticated to view search results and
post uh reviews I kind of assume that
for posting reviews we would require
authentication just because of the
requirement to not allow a single person
to post to ratings for a single
business um I I cannot see any reason uh
not to let un unauthenticated users uh
to to to search other than you know yeah
I cannot really see any reason so
probably and also just the fact that
you're asking make me think that
probably for the
third uh we uh we don't need
authentication uh right so is this okay
can we assume that for search no
authentication for the other two we will
need authentication great okay thank you
for asking and now uh I would like to oh
okay so cool
so I'm going to start by you know
following what you recommend uh in your
videos um so like let's see how it works
for me um I'm going to try to start with
a simpler design that will focus on uh
filling uh uh the functional
requirements and then we can kind of see
what doesn't scale what doesn't meet the
non-functional requirements and we can
go a little bit deeper um so we will
start with a client
uh I guess one more question that I
should have asked uh or I want to ask is
like do we have uh web clients mobile
clients or both I don't necessarily
see uh any major like impact on the
design right now but yeah don't care
doesn't matter you can abstract it away
either way client box is fine so yeah
let's just go with the with the client
okay so let's see what kind of
architecture we would like to go with
for this um
we have a uh read heavy system which
makes me think that probably uh the
search we would go to like we would like
to probably go with like microservice
architecture to kind of divide the
search uh service from the rating
service so that they can be scaled
independently so I'm going to put in uh
an API Gateway SL load balancer here uh
from the
beginning uh May not go into too much
detail about about it just right now how
it would work U but let's say uh we will
start with search so um let's say um
like one more thing that uh we'll need
to decide is
basically um yeah Okay cool so let's
sorry for thinking a lot so let's start
with the third service
um for now um um I'm just going to
assume that it just goes straight to um
some let's call it like business
DB so to start drawing the arrows
basically we'll have
the
um the search call here then it's going
to be rooted
to our
service and then the service is going to
basically fetch businesses according to
the
search term and location so we will here
basically um
assume that each business has an ID name
some description
probably probably also like some tags um
some like some stuff to make it easier
to find and to index first of all um
definitely location as well let's say
still that it's latitude and longitude
let's think about it a little bit deeper
later uh what we might want to do here
um so yeah for now let's just assume
that this is like a simple database
whether SQL or non-sql
and this search uh end point just goes
directly here and does a full table scan
or like you know if it's a nosql
basically like a full document scan so
this will not scale and we will come
back to this later let's let's see um
how we can improve it later so um that's
for the search um for the business
details uh we're going to have a
separate
[Music]
uh service here we'll call it business
crowd
service um I'm kind of thinking at this
time whether this should be actually the
same service as search but I kind of
feel that we will want to scale search
independently further probably add some
elastic search or something like that uh
so at that point probably it will make
sense to have different code bases so
I'm kind of like on the edge of simpler
and more maybe complex uh design right
now but you know let's see how it goes
um so here we have the
um the business details call that again
is routed
here and for now let's
assume that this shoots to the same
database basically and get
the business object for a given ID so um
that's the business details and then the
ratings uh basically um is our our last
end point that we need to place
somewhere um so this is our first call
first call Post um cannot remember
already okay business rate
so and now I'm thinking also if um this
should use the same service or or
another one
um
we thinking if it makes sense to uh yeah
for now probably I will
just use the same service for this and
then we can talk a little bit about the
tradeoffs maybe we will split a separate
rating service for that
uh so that would be one thing that it
does at this
point and uh the other thing would
create some
rating objects
so a rating object would have a user ID
so this is the ID of the user who is
creating the rating um then we have the
rating itself which is like a one two
to five score basically and what else
the
optional review let's
say optional text of like some size
and
um that's probably it um let's keep it
simple um for now um yeah and
then one one one key feel you're missing
on that one just
oversight yes the business probably
would be great that be useful thank
you uh okay great um so it's a many to
many
relationship um yeah we can say already
at this point probably that um uh we
will need to um Index this uh on
business ID
probably also uh I add date time here so
um business ID and date time so that we
can easily find businesses for given
review and maybe sort them uh by uh by
time oh and also rating uh so yeah that
would be a bit more complex um uh index
here so yeah get indexes for a given
business sort them by rating and by by
time uh and um yeah so that's with this
current Design This is what this service
would be doing basically um create the
rating
objects uh okay so that's kind of like
super simplistic
version uh we have several problems here
one of them we already mentioned which
is like the search that is definitely
not scaling uh we said that
uh we would have um I'm looking 20
million monthly active users so uh
probably like you know the usual kind of
um ratio that is used I think probably
would say like 20 million daily users um
not sure how many searches a day um do
you have any like idea um how many
searches a a given a one user can
probably not that many probably between
like five and 10 I would guess uh so
that would be uh 20 million times 10
like daily
searches which I should compute right
now but yeah what definitely would
enough to be able to scale horizontally
we will need to scale this horizontally
maybe we'll need to add some cing so um
yeah definitely the search is not going
to be effective uh uh with the current
design
um and
uh yeah we also haven't said anything
about this requirement for now uh so
actually we can start by this um so uh
with this so uh a user can rate the
business only once um so that should be
validation that happens here basically
uh for this like uh Handler of the
um
uh uh of the post end point uh we said
that we will um value availability
higher than consistency so I guess there
is some kind of like nonzero
chance that I will be logged in maybe in
two devices and I would like super
quickly you know post a review from one
account from two devices that will be
connected to no no and there would be
some race condition maybe but I don't
think in real life I would worry about
that if I'm completely honest with you I
would probably Focus just on the uh
validation here uh so basically we will
check whether when I try to post a
review the service would check whether I
had already posted a review and if so it
would return like a uh an error uh so
that should be fine so I think we we can
focus just on the search for now and
then see
um how it goes then we can also talk a
little bit more about how this SE scales
for this like heavy read uh that we will
have but let's start with the search we
have still 10 minutes um okay um so for
this uh I think
uh that we should just use like one of
the search engines uh with elastic
search I think being the most popular
one uh so uh we should
um basically add an elastic search
cluster
uh and then uh the question is basically
uh how it will be populated like the
first question so um we could
probably set up something here um that's
we generally call uh
uh I always forget yeah but CDC but
generally we'll put Kafka here
uh which I I think it's called Kafka
connect that's something that maybe for
this uh not actually I haven't used
Kafka connect maybe that would be like
too complicated maybe we could use like
depending on the database that we have
here like either one of the drivers uh
like some databases provide basically a
stream uh uh an API to subscribe to a
stream themselves some others maybe
don't and then we would need to uh set
up kfka so yeah maybe we can and set
just call it CDC and not go like super
deep into this uh so yeah basically the
key thing here is that um I mean that's
actually
not that
important yeah I wanted to say that
maybe we should think about you know
Bing these requests here so that we
don't have too many rights too many
quick rights
Su uh consecutive rights to elastic
search because yeah it actually has like
a cup on on searches because it needs to
rebuild indexes on every right but it
doesn't seem like we' have that many
rights in this system actually uh so
maybe let's not think about it for now
uh but in any case um yeah we will have
an elastic search here with um uh uh
reverse uh index on uh the term that
will be sent in the request so basically
it will will tell like what which fields
from the business we want to include in
the full Tex search basically so like
name description tax for sure and then
as far as I remember elastic search also
supports uh uh geohashing so uh we
should be able to uh query both by the
term and by location which we still have
hav't clarified exactly how we will do
it uh I mean what we mean by
location uh
but yeah we can maybe actually talk
about it for a couple of minutes now so
um so so this is actually interesting
let me let me be kind of uh clear in
what I want here yeah so there's two
options and this is consistent with Yelp
if you go to Yelp it defaults to your
current location and if you hit search
and you go look at the query program
it's exactly what you'd expect there's a
lat laun in the query pram uh and it
looks up by by lat launch now the other
thing that yel supports is that for
example I'm actually traveling to San
Francisco tomorrow and I want to get
dinner specifically in the Mission
District yeah Mission District isn't a
city it's not a zip code it's not a it's
just an area right and I can type in
Mission District and it autocompletes
for me you don't need to worry about
autocomplete but if I do then my query
pram is now the string Mission District
yeah and so I want you to handle both of
those where the query pram is lat launch
I think that one should be relatively
straightforward I think you've even
satisfied at here and then where the uh
query pram instead is is a string yeah
okay so uh the Lattin launch is like the
simple one uh I guess I'm the simpler
one like so probably we don't need
to go too deep into this so um yeah but
in any case like oh yeah so like the
location uh in terms of flat and long I
I think could just be indexed by elastic
search uh using uh geohashing and then
you know if it's a given parameter it
will just do its thing and it will
return what it needs to return um typing
in mission is a much more interesting
case uh so
um I actually yeah I'm going to be
trying to come up with something I have
never implemented anything like this so
like I would be thinking here
um either about some system
that on on business creation or update
basically uh takes the location and
tries to assign some uh you know um
names of areas it is in like hey like
I'm creating a a a restaurant uh I'm
entering the location we can use some
like Google Maps API or whatever to
basically take the name of the city the
name of the district the name of the
neighborhood or like whatever and put it
in here at the time of creation of the
update uh that sounds like a reasonably
simple solution to me I guess um it
makes the creation and update a little
bit slower uh but we don't have that
many rights at least that we we haven't
been really talking so far about how
often the business would be updated but
I'm kind of assuming it wouldn't be very
often I assume that it's kind of like
okay I create my business and the
location is not something that will be
changing very often actually so that
sounds like a reasonable solution
alternatively if we are super worried
about not slowing this down this crude
Service uh uh when we are updating
location you know we could have some
kind of worker scheduled by some Chrome
job maybe that periodically goes through
here and uh you know fills in some
like yeah we can location in for
basically right but yeah I think that
probably on update it would be kind of
enough either just fill in this data on
on update synchronously or
asynchronously in some way basically and
then you you sort of mentioned this but
clarify what is the location info
exactly so if I entered the coordinates
what I said I'm curious if that's might
say since I enter the coordinates or
mark it on MAR mark on the map the
system sends the coordinates and then we
use some kind of API to figure out like
the name of the city the name of the
district the name of the country uh so
this is text info basically that we put
here and then this is also index in
elastic search basically uh in the same
reverse index as everything else uh so
in your example like you I cannot
remember oh what's the name of that
great oh lakaria you enter lakaria in
Mission basically you enter the uh
coordinates the system uses Google Maps
to get basically the information about
you know hey it's in Mission it's in San
Francisco it's on and the name of the
street I cannot remember Mission Street
I I guess it must be so it will put here
like Mission Street San Francisco
Mission has kind of like a list of uh
strings basically or just one string and
then elastic search is instead of
indexing on L launch now there's no
geohash or anything if I'm understanding
you correctly all searches are just
based on those strings no I was thinking
actually about both uh uh indexing both
uh so that um although that's a great
question let let's think about it a
little bit so I was
um
thinking yeah if we if we remove the
geoh housing
completely then like we
will Yeah you mentioned in the beginning
like that we want to do
[Music]
um if we remove gassing we will not be
able to do things like you know
searching the radius of like five
kilometers or something like that right
so definitely we don't want to do that
uh I guess
um when I what we could do is
like if you search for you know a cool
restaurant within like let's say you you
type that you want it to be within 5
kilometers from Mission District like
whatever that would mean basically uh we
could assume that you know like we would
also just choose like the middle of the
Mission District
basically
um and then just use geohashing to
search around that right so instead of
actually putting the data here what we
could do is try to somehow depending
again on like what the UI looks like
right you try to parse the name of the
district somehow from the search term
and then uh basically choose some
arbitrary point in the middle of like
the mission in this example and then
search in the radius and we could do it
at search time for
example
um yeah maybe I think these are all
reasonable considerations and for the
sake of time because I see we only got a
minute left left maybe we can go one
minute over if we need to but talking
about how how you can handle that item
potency of reviews the one user one
business thing yeah
um right uh so
um I think what we said so far
um was that
basically um yeah if I send the review
if I try to send the review for the
first time the system will check whether
I review or already exists or not and if
it doesn't exist it would create the
review and if it does exist it would
return an error uh and so that makes
sense you have code in the in the
business crud service here let me
introduce kind of some additional
considerations your system's grown
significantly and some new team now also
through some different path for some
reason wres reviews or you acquired a
company and now you have some data
engineering team and they're backfilling
views and obviously that constraint has
no longer been met they didn't copy your
one line of code they they didn't see it
these guys don't even know code exists
yeah
right um so
um depending on the database we would
use like basically you know we can just
create like a uniqueness requirement I'm
pretty sure that most SQL databases as
post credit databases um support that uh
so that would be like the simplest
solution I guess um again um that would
mean that the system would also need to
support transactions so that kind of
starts limiting our uh choices of
databases a little bit uh I think but uh
something like yeah like basically
pogress like
MySQL um I think Dynamo also has some
strong uh Stronger uh consistency
guarantees so yeah in that case
basically if we want to give the
possibility for several business several
services to write directly to the
database we would need to rely basically
on database validation and just have
like uniqueness um constraints uh on the
business ID and user ID in the rating
table makes sense awesome okay break
congratulations you got through the
interview let me hear from you first how
are you feeling how do you think it went
um not great to be honest I mean I'm
very happy I've done it um I feel
like I mean yeah not
surprisingly I feel like I should have
been much more efficient with like what
I was saying um uh I didn't feel like I
had a lot of time to think I felt like I
focus basically only on like very
rudimentary stuff um uh also you needed
to ask me um several questions uh to
kind of help me uh starting from the uh
you know uh the requirement to see uh
Details page for a business with a few
other things as well like at least two
or three times you needed to help me um
overall I think the system should work
but I don't think also so like yeah it's
like all of this things that I said like
basically like very rudimentary stuff we
didn't really go deep uh in any
particular area I think maybe I said a
little bit about elastic search a little
bit about the DB
um but yeah that wasn't much this time
passed like very very quickly not it
goes quick it goes quick it goes quick
well let me tell you what I think I
think that you're a bit harder on
yourself though in general true I think
you got the essence of kind of the
things that we want to talk about
adjusting um but as I said more harshly
than maybe I would say and I will say
here so here's my high level and then
we'll go linearly through your interview
and we're talk about exactly where
things could be changed and can be
improved but the high level is you have
a lot to be proud of you should feel
encouraged I feel encouraged and if I
was a betting man for your interview
next week I would be betting on you
doing well based on what I just saw here
um had I just done this in an interview
at meta I'm doing higher at staff low
confidence higher at senior high
confidence and that Delta and low
confidence is largely on the back of the
things that you said which is that I
want to see more depth and I want to see
more conviction those are the two
largest things that were missing for me
and the efficiency or the moving slowly
is what prevented us from being able to
have some of that dep and actually the
places where I pointed things out for
you to add they were minor they're
they're not huge particularly in the
setup like I do that for most candidates
including staff candidates it's not a
big deal what I love for you to
proactively identify the the needs of
you business is sure but it's not the
end of the world um but then when it
gets into the actual design Yelp
itself not to be dismissive of it that's
not at all what I'm trying to say but
it's a it's a relatively straightforward
system and the beauty of it and
especially with the staff candidate
comes in you know how deep can we go and
how much can we recognize its simplicity
and articulate that Simplicity and so
there were a handful of places where you
did that really well and we'll call out
what those were and there were other
places maybe before there there was
opportunities to emphasize it even
further so that's the 10,000 foot view
does that feedback resonate it's largely
in line with yours and then we'll go
into detail yeah yeah for sure thanks
yeah curious about the details so let's
do it so uh let's go through functional
requirements you talked about it I think
that the main thing I want you to
consider consider here is two things
you're not designing Yelp you're not
trying to clone Yelp and two you're the
product Guy this is maybe the
distinction in a product architecture
interview versus a system design
interview so you make the decisions you
tell me what's needed right there was
kind of throughout the interview moments
where you were looking for me to make a
product decision and I'll jump in and
I'll guide where I need to I love that
you gave me spaces an interviewer in
between sections to to suggest things
but in those moments where it's a
product decision you you make it and you
show that conviction you tell me what we
need to search by like you're designing
the product and you don't need to say
I'm trying to think about what Yelp does
I don't necessarily care about what yel
does you have a goal develop a platform
that allows people to find businesses
and rate and review them right you can
take inspiration where you need to be as
you always would but you're the product
guy so keep that in mind um
non-functional requirements this was
great frankly I wouldn't change a thing
you got the most important things your
articulation of why consistency was less
important was great read to write ratio
super important here low latency SE
search these are all the the important
ones the Integrity of reviews most
candidates miss it it's a bit obscure I
usually suggest it so you're not
abnormal in that way of course if you
did think about something like that it's
only a bonus that's kind of some product
thinking maybe but no big deal apis
again I really like them a couple just
minor suggestions and these are only
fluff on Top This was passing for staff
for me from an API perspective um but
when we do apis in a product
architecture interview there's some
opportunities for you to just add a bit
of
embellishment and so some places where
you can do this are let me call out the
ones that you did what endpoints need
pagination great you did that perfect
consideration for payload size so on the
search endpoint do we need to return the
full business or just partial you did
this perfect these were fantastic other
things to consider is like whether we
need any pre-etching anywhere probably
not relevant here uh not largely
relevant anyway the other one is do we
need to split end points up for either
minimizing payload size or in this case
for the pagination of reviews so kind of
the only quote unquote error you have
here is that that view business details
endpoint's also going to need to return
the reviews and so if you did append
this and many candidates will just do
this this is reasonable or list of
reviews this is reasonable but now you
have the case that that query to get the
reviews is obviously the larger query
and the larger payload and so it would
make more sense to break these into two
for two reasons one than you're going to
get business details on the page
immediately you'll have some skeleton to
load reviews and then two you can
paginate through those reviews and so
like that's kind of an some additional
flavor that certainly could be mentioned
here you talked about the authentication
stuff after me asking that's kind of a
good thing to just consider up front
which endpoints need to be authenticated
again a place where you make the product
decision uh I want people to be able to
use my product I want them to be able to
come in and get immediately kind of uh
part of the ecosystem so searching and
even viewing businesses no
authentication but because of my
concerns on the Integrity of reviews
those they going to need people to be
authenticated for maybe even within the
product I try to upsell them uh to do
reviews uh which will then require the
authentication and of course then I'll
have their email and everything but
that's some of the additional stuff
you'll talk about in apis in general I
thought you did quite well let me pause
just for a quick moment questions
thoughts so far otherwise I'll keep keep
running through that's really great
thank you yeah great call out about the
endp point to fetch reviews um yeah all
great thanks perfect so as you got into
the design high level design was great
and correct couple just minor things
that I'll say here is that it was like
perfect for a senior interview and I
think that you might have been taking
some lessons from my videos for better
or worse in that in the staff interview
a place where you can be more efficient
is that like I'm taking for granted a
lot of your knowledge and I'm assuming
you and I are on the same page through a
lot of things and so as it pertain to
like labeling some of the uh the arrows
here and being explicit about like the
simple search path and some of this
labeling it's honestly great like I love
it from a communication perspective and
if you were a senior engineer I
particularly love it it's probably a
waste of time for a staff engineer so
I'm not saying that this is showing up
as negatives in your feedback of course
not but it is something that's taking
unnecessary time and so had you just
said client Gateway I have a search
service I have a business DB of course
this is going to be slow the path here
is from client to business DB and we're
going to return it takes 15 seconds and
I'm on the same page as you you're staff
engineer and I know that we know what
we're doing here right um in fact I
don't I like this idea and of course I I
promote this of like building up from a
high level design and I think that's
necessary particularly if you haven't
seen the problem before but don't feel
like you don't have to if you know the
solution and it's easy and it's simple
by all means feel free like if you got
to this point and you were like this
isn't going to work for search so I'm
just going to plop elastic search down
here maybe we'll come back and talk
about more details exactly what indexes
we're building in consistency and all
the interesting things about it caching
whatever but like I know that just
searching on the business DB is not
going to work so I can go right to
elastic search what you did again not a
negative but from a Time perspective and
an efficiency perspective you can kind
of take more Liberties there knowing
that we both know um so that's something
that can happen there and I think we'll
speed you up and then that's going to
afford you the opportunity to do some of
this depth and the depth comes in a
couple directions the first is actually
by way of Simplicity and let me try to
articulate this kind of clearly to make
sure this isn't confusing but there's
this graph and I think you actually did
pretty well here this graph looks
something like this and on the x- axis
is the seniority of the candidate on the
y- axis is the complexity of their
solution so complexity senority and what
you find SP who cares what you find is
that Junior and mid-level candidates
their Solutions are super simple because
they don't know any better senior
candidates over engineer the hell out of
everything they put message cues in
every place they add caching where they
don't need caching all this stuff and
then staff principal candidates end up
over here where their solution is simple
more simple than a senior candidate
oftentimes even resembling that of a
junior candidate but the distinction is
that they can carefully articulate why
that Simplicity is
better and so some places where you were
doing that and where I'd love to see
even the further conviction is like the
determination as to whether or not we
need different Services here um and so
actually I there's no right or wrong
answer here but I probably would have
taken a slightly different justification
and that I would have said search and
view are going to be the same because
they're going to be on the same order of
scale and then writing reviews which
happens far less frequently that'll be
its own service so that we can scale
search and Views independently we'll
keep reviews separate but it I agree
with your kind of determination that
there needs to be some consolidation a
lot of candidates will have three
services here and it's like why viewing
an event is one line of code to query a
database you know put that in search
it's the same scale it's all great and
you can clearly articulate to me why and
it shows the experience of like I've had
to maintain these systems and
maintaining multiple Services sucks
there's more places for things to go
wrong so every place I can consolidate
I'm going to do that and even if you can
articulate that to the interviewer that
shows that level of sority and then same
too with the database you made the right
decision here whether or not you
actually didn't weigh it as a decision
you just did it but businesses and
ratings being in the same database a lot
of candidates will try to split these up
I agree with your decision one you can
take advantage of some of the relational
nature here you couldn't do that if they
were in separate databases but two this
is an opportunity where maybe you could
have done a little bit of math and I
think there were some opportunities for
this throughout the interview but you
could have said something as simple as
this we have 10 million businesses each
business only has like a kilobyte of
data it's nothing and that right there
is like 0.01 terabytes M and gigabytes
or something like this 0.1 and then from
there maybe we multiply that by 10
because we need to have some ratings and
reviews in there it's 0.1 terabytes of
data it's nothing fits on a single
instance and that's kind of my key
identification to my interviewer is
we're not working with a lot of data
here not only does the data never change
but it's super small and as a result a
single database maybe I just put a cach
in front of it or a single replica of
course I'll have some snapshotting I
don't know it's a product dark TI
interview you don't have to go to too
much detail there but that's the key
observation and then I loved the
conversation that you had here about CDC
obviously you know maybe there there was
like a little bit of trip up on
terminology I don't care too much but I
love this
conversation I wanted the conviction and
so this is the clear articulation of
like exactly as you said elastic search
has to reindex on every right and so we
want to minimize the number of Rights
and so let me do a little bit of math
here like how many rights are we going
to have or doesn't even need to be a
math in this case it's just kind of a an
a prediction I have 10 million
businesses people don't update their
businesses much maybe like 1% of those
update their businesses it's a thousand
over 100,000 this is like one every
couple of minutes it's nothing so I
don't need to do any batching here but
if I did and there were more rights then
we would consider batching perfect
fantastic that conversation was amazing
and and I appreciated that um some other
places that are interesting here and
opportunities for you to think about
product thinking is that what I usually
encourage candidates to do is sort of
visualize the ux a little bit not
because this is strictly necessary to
draw it or anything like that but
because it makes you think of what I may
be missing and so particularly if you
visualize the ux you would think people
come in and they do their whole search
box thing this might have got you to
think about what are the different
things I search by either laun or by
location how do I want to do this
regardless then the search results come
up you identified that it's a partial
search result one thing that you might
identify as important here to users is
like an average
rating and so not only on The View
Details page but on the search results I
want an average rating and so this would
have been another follow-up question for
me if we had more time that average
rating is going to be difficult to
compute on the Fly it's going to be
expensive you don't want to do that so
I'd ask you how you'd handle that and so
candidates often times this is actually
a pretty Illuminating question that I
answer and great for staff in my opinion
because the answers are simple but what
I do what I see is that a senior
candidate does the following they say
okay I'm GNA put a message cue there and
then I'm gonna have some asynchronous
worker that updates the average review
based on these me these updates as
they're coming in okay fine sure that's
kind of true you might also propose I'm
gonna have a Cron job that's going to
update it just daily or something also
interesting a staff candidate will
say reviews come in if I have uh 10 you
know 100,000 daily active users even
higher order of magnitude than you had
and we decided it was 10,000 to one then
at 100,000 seconds that's one review a
second it's nothing and what does it
take to update an average review well I
could have an average here and a total
the total count of reviews and then it's
just total times average plus new one
divided by total plus one it's like 10
CPU Cycles it's nothing can happen
synchronous
there's no issues here that's not going
to take a lot of time you're not going
to be holding any any any lock or
Connection open for longer than it needs
to be so that's easy and then you can
have that PR product discussion of like
do I want it to change on the Fly do I
want you to add a rating and a review
automatically change is that
disorienting do I want to just do a Cron
job then so that doesn't happen here are
my tradeoffs this is what you would
discuss with your PM in a meeting and I
want you to make a decision with some
conviction um so it kind of gives you
some indication
we pause again these conversations kind
of seeing how you could arrive at some
of these the importance of the
Simplicity these trade-offs that we're
discussing yeah that's really great so
like that's the first time I'm I'm
really seeing like uh where the
differences between staff and Senior are
so like yeah really appreciate it and um
yeah all great examples obviously so
yeah thank you perfect the last thing
I'll say here then is just this
discussion which is the kind of an a
really interesting one about how to
handle both geolocation and term these
are going to be two different search
paths to elastic search two different
queries excuse me one is going to be
your classic lat La plus a radius kind
of common to uh to elastic search great
and then the other one's more
interesting because you have two
options option A is I think the
direction of what you were suggesting
which is that anytime you add a business
we do some computation of like the fan
out of their locations and so maybe for
business in the Mission District then we
have
a street name and then Mission District
and
then where is Mission District in San
Francisco I don't know but maybe like
you know Northwest San Francisco and
then San Francisco and then Bay Area and
then California you have all those
terms and if that's the case that's
great that's kind of a list of terms and
then within elastic search we'd index
just on those terms as if they're tags
yeah easy and I think this is what
you're suggesting that's great uh the
alternate one is that we have Geo points
which are supported in elas search as
well and this is just useful for you to
know in general and so you can have like
a for any of these businesses the the
list of its Geo points which creates the
polygon that it exists in and these can
be passed as input to elastic search and
you can say find things Within These Geo
points so if somebody search for Mission
District then maybe you have a location
here which is Mission and it has its Geo
points it's list of Geo points um and
then so too for each layer examp
Francisco has its own list of Geo points
and whatever so to be honest with you I
kind of like the Simplicity of the
direction that you were going I think
this is probably closer to what Yelp
does we can weigh the tradeoffs on
either one respectively but kind of good
and interesting to know awesome um
okay we're at about time happy to go a
couple minutes over here to answer any
questions that you may have but anything
else I can I can help with hopefully the
feedback resonates and uh uh yeah yeah
that was like really really great um
yeah like really um easy to understand
for me um you know all based in like
really clear examples um yeah um
and yeah gives me a lot to think about
thank you so much uh made my notes um
I'm actually uh going to have another um
I think you have another with me later
this week also with you right I on on
Friday okay yeah that was also you um
but yeah on Friday um yeah it's with me
which I'll tell you what is is unusual
that you get two with me so you maybe
lucked out maybe didn't but well
definitely I feel I feel lucky um I'm
not sure I mean you know from I'm not
sure I mean yeah I I mean no I am
actually sure I I thought for a second
that you know maybe you would have some
bias coming in or like whatever right
but uh you've done
there so much of this that yeah I don't
think this is going to be a problem so
yeah maybe it's actually going to help
us a little bit that you have a little
bit more context about me maybe you'll
be able to sh some you know more nuanced
feedback so that's really great but in
any case um yeah I have a lot to think
about and that was super useful to me
and I definitely feel like I made this
kind of like no mistake um I should have
just timed you know my ex excises before
you know um which I haven't or at least
I was timing more for like you know more
or less 45 minutes I yeah so uh but in
any case yeah I I spent too much time
early on on simple stuff and then I
started rushing and just snowballed
basically so I'm going to focus most on
kind of you know going as quickly as
possible to the interesting stuff and
um kind of relying a little bit more on
you you know the interviewer may be
jumping in and asking question if they
are not confident that I know what I'm
talking about um so that's still give
them the space as you did for what it's
worth I thought your communication was
fantastic so don't kind of over index
Andrade that portion of the interview I
think the main takeaway should be that
this was this was great and really close
and that you just need to make those
couple changes move faster towards
what's interesting be decisive you're
the product guy make decisions weigh the
tradeoffs and show your conviction do
those things this is a SL up awesome
let's focus on Friday on seeing if I've
made any progress on those particular
things and um yeah man thank you so much
really appreciate it and looking forward
to the next one perfect let's do it see
I'll I took good notes so I'll write
your written feedback and submit it now
10 minutes or so you all right thank you
so much looking forward to it take care
see you later byebye